# NetworkProjects

Small projects focusing on internet protocol implementation and socket programming. 

**socket_smtp.py**: Send an email, with an attachment or image, from a python script. Be able to specify the server name/IP address and allow for any attachment and message body to be sent using MIME. Demonstrate SMTP (Simple Mail Transfer Protocol) via socket programming and MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions) protocol, rather than referring to existed packages like **smtplib** or **email**. Instantiate the idea by QQ-mail. Others, like Gmail or 126 mail, could use default port 25. TCP/IP 3-way handshake is important. 

**attachment.py & image.py**: Use MIMEMultipart() to instantiate the email, then use MIMEText/MIMEImage to respectively attach the (multiple) files, finally send the email by smtplib.smtp. For the image, the external link does not work for most mail service providers, so we should attach it directly. Compartively, the codes are more concise and elegant. 

**sock_http_server.py**: Design a webserver for HTTP, which will run only on port 8080 (since ports below 1024 are tough to bind to). We will only accept simple requests and for security. We will not be using actual files, only text. Also, we will only support GET requests and anything else should result in a 400 error code response. Our "pages" will be statically coded into the system as would be consistent with an embedded controller, with one exception, a counter showing the total number of requests (200 or 400) that have been processed by the program since it was started. The server will only have three pages, a home page (“/”)and two “sub” pages(“/page2” and “/page3”). If the request is for a page that does not exist, you should return a 404 error with a little text explaining that the information was not found. In any case, you must reply with, appropriate, HTTP headers including "Server", "Content-Length: XXX" (number of bytes), "Content-Type: text/html", and "Connection: Closed". Test your server in your favorite web browser by browsing to http://localhost:8080 when the program is running.

